[SOUND] Hello, this is Chris Busheers,
part of the Splunk education team.
In this video, I'll show you how
install Splunk onto a Window's server.
First we need to get the software
from the splunk.com download page.
We will need to select that
the platform is 32 or 64-bit.
If you aren't sure if your system is 32 or
64-bit, you can check
your system properties.
As you can see, this server is 64-bit,
so we can install that version.
If we saw a system type of 32-bit,
we would download the 32-bit version.
We run the installer by
double clicking on it.
There is button to view the license
agreement, and a check box to accept it.
At this point we can either install
Splunk with the defaults, or
customize our installation.
Let's click on the customize options
to see what settings can be selected.
The first option is to change
the installation location of Splunk.
We are fine with this location,
so we click Next.
Now we must choose what account type
to install Splunk as, Local System or
Domain Account.
A Local System account will allow
Splunk to access all data on, or
forwarded, to this machine.
A Domain Account will allow
you to collect logs and
metrics from remote machines as
well as local and forwarded data.
You are required to provide a Domain
Account with the proper domain rights
to use this type.
Local System works well for
us, so we click Next.
We can select to have a shortcut to Splunk
added, and click Install to continue.
[MUSIC]
Once installed, we can select to have
Splunk launch, and click Finish.
This Splunk web interface
opens in our default browser.
We enter the default user name of admin,
and a password of change made.
A dialog box appears asking
us to change our password.
It is always best practice to do this.
Once logged in, we are taken to
the Splunk launcher homepage.
And that's all it takes to get
Splunk installed on Windows.
Now dig in, and start exploring.
[SOUND]